the word that came to Jeremiah from the
Lord thus speaks the Lord God of Israel
saying write in a book for yourself all
the words that I have spoken to you for
behold the days are coming that I will
bring back from captivity my people
Israel and Judah and I will cause them
to return to the land that I gave to
their fathers and they shall possess it
now these are the words that the Lord
spoke concerning Israel and Judah for
thus says the Lord
we have heard a voice of trembling of
fear in lot of peace ask now and see
whether a man as ever in labor with
child so why do I see every man with his
hands on his loins like a woman in labor
and all faces turned pale alas for that
day is great so that none is like it and
it is the time of Jacob's trouble but he
shall be saved out of it for it shall
come to pass in that day says the Lord
of Hosts that I will break his yoke from
your neck and will burst your bonds
foreigners shall no more enslave them
but they shall serve the Lord their God
and David their King whom I will raise
up for them therefore do not fear o my
servant Jacob says the Lord nor be
dismayed of Israel for behold I will
save you from afar and your seed from
the land of their captivity Jacob shall
return have rest and be quiet and no one
shall make him afraid for I am with you
says the Lord to save you though I make
a full end of all nations where I have
scattered you yet I will not make a
complete end of you
but I will correct you in justice and
will not let you go all together
unpunished for thus says the Lord your
affliction is incurable your wound is
severe there is no one to plead your
cause that you may be bound up you have
no healing medicines all your lovers
have forgotten you they do not seek you
for I have wounded you with the wound of
an enemy with the chastisement of a
cruel one for the multitude of your
iniquities because your sins have
increased why do you cry about your
affliction your sorrow is incurable
because of the multitude of your
iniquities because your sins have
increased I have done these things to
you therefore all those who devour you
shall be devoured and all your
adversaries every one of them shall go
into captivity those who plunder you
shall become plunder and all who prey
upon you I will make a pray for I will
restore health to you and heal you of
your wounds because they called you an
outcast saying this is Zion no one seeks
power thus says the Lord behold I will
bring back the captivity of Jacobs tents
and have mercy on his dwelling places
the city shall be built upon its own
mound and the palace shall remain
according to its own plan
then out of them shall proceed
Thanksgiving and the voice of those who
make merry I will multiply them and they
shall not diminish I will also glorify
them and they shall not be small their
children also shall be as before and
their congregation shall be established
before me and I will punish all who
oppress them their nobles shall be from
among them and their governor shall come
from their midst
then I will cause him to draw near and
he shall approach me for who is this who
pledged his heart to approach me you
shall be my people and I will be your
God behold the whirlwind of the Lord
goes forth with fury a continuing
whirlwind it will fall violently on the
head of the wicked the fierce anger of
the Lord will not return until he has
done it and until he has performed the
intents of his heart in the latter days
you will consider it
[Music]